---
layout: post
title: "Restore Mysql data from .MYD, .MYI and .frm files [dbsake saved me!]"
date: 2020-05-28
---


This post is to record my exploration on how to restore MySQL database from .MYD, .MYI and .frm files. Before this, I had no idea about the engine of MySQL and backup of databases.

A popular solution could be found [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/879176/how-to-recover-mysql-database-from-myd-myi-frm-files) on Stack Overflow. However, it didn't work in my case.


## Some Knowledge...

**Different Engines**

A quick introduction about MySQL storage engines can be found [here](http://zetcode.com/mysql/storageengines/) at zetcode.com.

There are two types of storage engines in MySQL: transactional and non-transactional. For MySQL 5.5 and later, the default storage engine is *InnoDB*. The default storage engine for MySQL prior to version 5.5 was *MyISAM*.

Choosing MyISAM as the engine for a table will generate three files in the database folder:

 - .FRM  =>  It has the table structure of your table or table definition

 - .MYI  =>  It has the indexes of your table

 - .MYD  =>  It contains your data

Table using MyISAM can be recovered or moved to other computer only by copying these three files (however this method is not recommend).

## Problems

The problem I had was, even if I copied these three files into a database folder and changed the file ownership using *chown* command, I still couln'd see the table in MySQL. 

Then I tried a different method -- created a empty table and replaced the auto-generated files with my files, then used *repair* command to repair the table. However, using repair command as suggested in one of those answers couldn't recover the table structure from .frm file but still remained the table strucre I used to create this empty table.

Therefore, I guessed the only way was to get the original table structure somehow, and create a new empty table with the exact same structure as it.

## My Solution

**1. Use dbSake to get the structure of your table**

The final solution that worked in my case is to firstly create a empty table that has the exactly same structure with the one you want to recover.
We know now that the .frm file contains your table structure so the next step is to find how to read the structure from this file.

There is a tool called dbsake which solve this problem nicely. [Dbsake](https://dbsake.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) is a collection of command-line tools to perform various DBA related tasks for MySQL.(I copied this from their documentation.)

To install the tool, just run the following lines of codes in terminal:

    # curl -s http://get.dbsake.net > dbsake
    # chmod u+x dbsake

Here we use the *frmdump* command. By using this command, we could get a CREATE TABLE statement. For example:

    # ./dbsake frmdump /var/lib/mysql/mysql/plugin.frm
    
    CREATE TABLE `plugin` (
      `name` varchar(64) NOT NULL DEFAULT ''  /* MYSQL_TYPE_VARCHAR */,
      `dl` varchar(128) NOT NULL DEFAULT ''  /* MYSQL_TYPE_VARCHAR */,
      PRIMARY KEY (`name`)
    ) ENGINE=MyISAM DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8 COMMENT='MySQL plugins';

Next, we use this statement to create a table with the same name as your files.

**2. Copy files to data folder**

After creating the empty table, stop your MySQL server. Copy three files into the database folder.
Restart MySQL server and go to the table. Wa-lah! Your data is back now!

## Conclusion

As for me, it is still a long way to go in terms of understanding MySQL and database design. 

Thanks again for dbsake -- this tool really saved me on this one!!!